Well, this video is is hard to look at.
But what can you tell us about
I know there's
there's not a whole lot of information,
but it gets to the the desperation
that we're seeing out there.
Well, this location in southern Gaza,
the Rafah
crossing, is essentially
one of the only lifelines
for the
2.2 million people in Gaza,
because it's
where you can bring in supplies
from Egypt.
There's there's
always a long line of trucks
waiting to cross,
but they don't always get through.
Today,
we know that there were dozens of trucks
that did get through,
but there efforts to distribute aid
in Gaza were hampered
by these large, desperate crowds.
You're talking about hundreds of people.
At least that's what we can
ascertain from this footage.
Jumping on the trucks,
trying to break in and grab
whatever items they could.
It seemed as if it was really a mad dash.
And at some point, gunfire erupts.
So adding to the chaos
and the confusion
is the danger of bullets
whizzing through the air.
We don't know who was firing the shots.
We don't know how
it started or necessarily why.
But in a chaotic situation like that,
when people are so hungry
and so desperate
and so determined
to try to get what they can.
In many cases, just to support themselves
and their families.
But there could also be
potentially looting.
We saw that
there were tires that were set on fire.
And then you had the gunshots
ring out as well.
Listen, to what it sounded like
at the height of all of this.
It is Christmas Eve jam.
These people have lived through week
after week of airstrikes.
There's been ground combat
that's now expanding.
The IDF, the Israeli military
moving into central and southern Gaza.
Their operations.
There've been airstrikes
throughout all of these areas.
And now on top of that,
a brawl around the relief trucks
and gunfire.
People are living an absolute hellish
nightmare right now in Gaza.
And this video is all
you really need to look at to
just get a little bit of a glimpse
of what it's like for them.
And this is why.
The call for aid. The call for help.
The call to
to do
whatever the world can
to improve the situation
for more than 2 million people
living through
this is even more urgent
on this Christmas Eve than
it's ever been.
Yeah.
Well, I mean,
that video right
there just goes to the horror
of what life is like right now
in that part of the world.
And and we just don't know.
The gunfire is emanating in that video
Is that
is that something
we can ascertain from looking at it?
We just don't know.
Okay.
It is.
It's in the video,
but we don't know where
the shots are being fired from.
You don't see there's
no reports of anybody injured
that we know of.
But again,
information could be slow going.
A lot of times
people have to climb up on a roof
just to get an Internet signal
to feed back video like this.
Our journalists
on the ground
in Gaza worked so hard to record moments.
And sometimes it can take hours
and hours and hours
just to get the information back to us,
to get a phone signal,
to get the footage back.
And so we hope to learn
more about what exactly happened today
in southern Gaza at the Rafah crossing.
But you can see clearly in the pictures
it was a situation of people
who are driven
to the edge of desperation.
Yeah,
they are so desperate
and so
determined to try to get what they can,
grabbing
whatever they can,
running running for it,
and then having to essentially,
you know, hear
gunfire, wonder
if they're going to have to dodge bullets
after airstrikes
and everything else
that they've gone through.
And by the way, most of these people
on the on the verge of starvation,
extremely hungry
because they're so little food
and and water,
even even drinking water
available in Gaza right now.
Barack, I do want to ask you about this
drone attack
in just a few moments,
but I wanted to go back to that video
that Will Ripley was talking about
near the Rafah border crossing
where we saw gunfire breaking out.
People sort of almost running in a panic
with relief supplies that had come in,
I guess.
What's your sense
when you talk to your sources
about the level of desperation
inside Gaza and whether things could?
I mean, this just gives you a sense
that things could really spiral
out of control
in a significant way,
that it just might become difficult
for anybody to get a handle
or a lid on the situation.
What's your sense of it?
First, I agree with you, Jim,
that the situation is very, very serious
and it's getting worse by the day.
And I think what is most challenging
is that in a few weeks,
the Israeli military is going to
phase out this operation
and move from the high intensity
phase to the low intensity phase,
which means that most of the IDF
soldiers will go out
of the Palestinian cities.
And then you'll have a vacuum
all over the Gaza Strip.
And then either
Hamas will come back again
or we will see the same pictures
we saw in Rafah today.
We will see it all over the Gaza Strip.
And the number one
challenge now is to find a way
for somebody
to be in charge of law and order
in a few weeks in Gaza
so that all this
humanitarian aid is coming
in, won't be looted,
will reach the people who need it.
And unfortunately, at that moment,
there's nobody that can do it
right.
Because Barack,
one of
the conversations
that really hasn't been fully
dealt with is
who is going to be
the governing authority in Gaza,
you know, in the near future.
I can't
imagine Israel is going to want Hamas
to be that governing authority.
And when you see the chaos
break out that we saw today,
I mean,
that is going to be a major challenge
of course.
And if the if it's not Hamas
and if there's no other volunteer
and that can take
the Gaza Strip under its responsibility,
the Egyptians are not going to do it.
The Saudis are not going to do it.
The Democrats are not going to do it.
Then Israel can find itself again,
not next year and not
six months from now,
but a few weeks from now
in a situation where it will have to take
responsible
responsibility for 2 million
Palestinians in Gaza.
And this is the last thing Israel wants.
But if there's not going to be
any alternative governing body
and for now,
there is not,
you know, the responsibility will aid
Israel stable.
And Barack,
what do you make of the Pentagon
singling out Iran
for this latest drone attack
on this commercial ship?
It does sound as though that tensions
are really building
and it almost feels like a foreshadowing
of something to come
to send a message
to the Houthi rebels, to send a message
to the Iranians, potentially.
What can you tell us
I think what's
important and interesting
in this recent attack that generated
from Iran,
this drone attack against this ship
near the coast of India,
is that it's
the kind of attack that we haven't seen
for many, many months.
Something like a year ago,
we saw almost every week
an Iranian attack
on some sort of a vessel
that had either
a strong connection
or a weak connection to Israel.
And this was part of this shadow war
between Israel and Iran,
because the Israelis also attacked
Iranian vessels
and this war, this tit for tat.
But we haven't seen this for a long,
long time.
And the fact that the Iranians
decided to resume those attacks,
those direct attacks from Iran against
Israeli vessels or vessels
that are affiliated with
Israeli companies
I think it's a very worrisome sign
because it's
no doubt an escalation
after what
we've seen in the last few weeks.
And when we were talking
with Kevin Liptak earlier,
about this on this program,
I mean, there is a sense
in the Biden administration
that the Iranians
may be setting
something of a bit of a trap
and that they
they want to almost bait
the Israelis and the U.S.
to, I guess, muster
some kind of response
that would widen the conflict,
make things messier in the region.
And I suppose that there's
there's that side of it to that
that has to be dealt with. Yeah.
So senior
Israeli officials that I talked to are,
you know,
very aware that that's the case.
And this is why you did not see Israel
retaliating against the Houthis in Yemen,
because the Israelis say
this is exactly what the Iranians
and the Houthis want.
They want to distract us from Gaza.
They want to distract us
from trying to deter
Hezbollah in the north.
And we're not going to do it.
And therefore is
Israel
gives a chance
for this
international maritime
coalition in the Red Sea.
But on the other hand,
the Israelis do say that
they think that the U.S.
should do something about it
or about the Houthis
and you see that every day.
The Houthis are escalating
their attacks on U.S.
vessels in the Red Sea, U.S.
Navy vessels.
Just the other day, an attack on a U.S.
ship.
And when I speak to U.S.
officials in Washington,
they say and they you know,
they recognize that this is an option
that's on the table, U.S.
taking military action
against the Houthis.
It's being considered in the Pentagon.
It's being considered in the White House.
Secretary of Defense Austin,
when he was just here in Tel Aviv
a week ago,
he told the Israelis,
we are not taking a military action
off the table when it
comes to the Houthis.
All right.
Barack Ravid,
perhaps I'm
going to be watching
for over these holidays.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate the time today.
Thank you, Jim.
And I hope you all have a calm
holiday season. You as well.